Attribute access control (#718)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/queryworkers/attribute-based-access.md

            doc.customer == @customer
    UPDATE doc WITH {"ordered": doc.ordered + 1} IN orders
    RETURN NEW
```

When Partner 1 wants to update their data, they can run a command with their API key similar to the following:

```
curl -X 'POST' \\
    '<https://fulfillment.eng.macrometa.io/_fabric/_system/_api/restql/execute/PartnerOrdersUpdate>' \\
    -H 'accept: application/json' \\
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \\
    -H 'Authorization: apikey acme_key.897b6e...' \\
    -d '{ "bindVars": { "customer": 1}}'
```

The displayed results show the added data:

```sql
{
   { "customer": 1, "item": "hammer", "ordered": 2, "partner": "partner1" },
}
```

On the other hand, if Partner 1 tries to run the same command to edit data belonging to Partner 2:

```
curl -X 'POST' \\
    '<https://fulfillment.eng.macrometa.io/_fabric/_system/_api/restql/execute/PartnerOrders>' \\
    -H 'accept: application/json' \\
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \\
    -H 'Authorization: apikey <PARTNER 1 API KEY>' \\
    -d '{ "bindVars": { "customer": 2}}'
```

The result is empty because the attempt failed:

```sql
{
   {}
}
```

> ## Example 3

Author: We should really update this example to show it working properly from the Employees side, or otherwise remove it entirely.  At the moment, it doesn't seem very helpful to include an example that just shows something not working.

Reviewer: Agreed. @joubert-macrometa, is this something you can help with?

Author: @diana-macrometa I met with Joubert and we agreed to remove the example since the "useful" version is an edge case with limited usefulness, and we decided it's not worth the effort.

---
sidebar_position: 40
title: Attribute-Based Access Control
---

> For this example, assume the following organizations each have employees who must access their own data:

Reviewer: We're missing the context that the queries are query workers, which are saved to create an API that uses attributes to grant or limit permissions based on the filtering in each.

Author: It's a bit long, but how is this?

"You can save multiple queries as query workers, and then run them concurrently to create an API that uses attributes to limit permissions for users and API keys."

- Supplier Store
- Partner 1
- Partner 2

Each partner store needs an API key with appropriate attributes to limit their access. Additionally, individual supplier employees need similar limitations.

For this example, configure an API key for each of the following users, then add an attribute with these values:

> - Partner 1:

Reviewer: Consider writing this as a table:
```
| Name           | Attribute    | Value       |
| -------------- | ------------ | ----------- |
| Partner 1      | `partner`    | `partner1`  |
| Partner 2      | `partner`    | `partner2`  |
| Supplier Admin | `employee`   | `admin`     |
| Supplier Staff | `employee`   | `staff`     |
```

    - **Attribute -** `partner`
    - **Value -** `partner1`
- Partner 2:
    - **Attribute -** `partner`
    - **Value -** `partner2`
- Supplier Admin:
    - **Attribute -** `employee`
    - **Value -** `admin`
- Supplier Staff:
    - **Attribute -** `employee`
    - **Value -** `staff`

> Refer to the [Add Attributes to API Keys](../account-management/attributes/add-attributes-api.md) section for instructions on adding attributes to API keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [Add Attributes to API Keys](../account-management/attributes/add-attributes-api.md) for instructions on adding attributes to API keys.
```

> Create two collections which will contain customer data for the examples: `item` and `customer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create two collections that will contain customer data for the examples: `item` and `customer`.
```

Reviewer: I suggest linking to the instructions for creating a document collection, here.

> Add the following data to the `item` collection:

Reviewer: I recommend actually making this a query that will add the info to the collections. You can get the syntax from the Game of Thrones tutorial, now called Query Tutorial in the Queries section. Just makes life a tad easier for the users. Don't forget to test the queries!

```sql
{
   { "item": "hammer", "price": 5.99, "count": 55, "partner": "partner1" },

>    { "item": "screw driver", "price": 3.99, "count": 15, "partner": "partner1" },

Reviewer: "screwdriver" is one word. Fix throughout.

   { "item": "pliers", "price": 4.95, "count": 28, "partner": "partner2" },
   { "item": "drill", "price": 42.90, "count": 5, "partner": "partner2" }
}
```

Add the following data to the `customer` collection:

```sql

> {

Reviewer: I am 99 percent sure that this brace should be a square one, not curly. But not positive.

   { "customer": 1, "item": "hammer", "ordered": 2, "partner": "partner1" },
   { "customer": 2, "item": "drill", "ordered": 1, "partner": "partner2" }
}
```

> In this example, customer 1 is partner 1 and customer 2 is partner 2.

Reviewer: Wait, what? Which example? Example 1?

> ## Example 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example 1 - Attribute Can Only View
```

Reviewer: Taking a stab at improving this. Ignore if you ate it. If we add words, not sure we need Example #.

> In this example, partners can see their own items but cannot update them.

Reviewer: How about, "This query worker allows partners to see their own items, but not update them."

I suggest applying this format throughout. In a later edit, maybe explain that it's basically granting View-only access to everyone with the partner attribute..

> The query worker `PartnerItems` displays data from a collection to which the active user can access:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query worker `PartnerItems` displays data from a collection that partners can access:
```

```sql
FOR doc IN items
    FILTER doc.partner == CURRENT_APIKEY_ATTRIBUTE("partner")
    RETURN doc
```

When Partner 1 wants to view their data, they can run a command with their API key similar to the following:

```sql
curl -X 'POST' \\
  '<https://fulfillment.eng.macrometa.io/_fabric/_system/_api/restql/execute/PartnerItems>' \\
  -H 'accept: application/json' \\
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \\
  -H 'Authorization: apikey <PARTNER 1 API KEY>' \\
  -d '{ "bindVars": {}}'
```

Note that in the results, only data with the `partner1` attribute displays:

```sql
{
   { "item": "hammer", "price": 5.99, "count": 55, "partner": "partner1" },
   { "item": "screw driver", "price": 3.99, "count": 15, "partner": "partner1" },
}
```

> ## Example 2

Reviewer: Attribute Can View and Edit

```sql
FOR doc IN orders
    FILTER doc.partner == CURRENT_APIKEY_ATTRIBUTE("partner") AND
            doc.customer == @customer
    UPDATE doc WITH {"ordered": doc.ordered + 1} IN orders
    RETURN NEW
```

When Partner 1 wants to update their data, they can run a command with their API key similar to the following:

```
curl -X 'POST' \\
    '<https://fulfillment.eng.macrometa.io/_fabric/_system/_api/restql/execute/PartnerOrdersUpdate>' \\
    -H 'accept: application/json' \\
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \\
    -H 'Authorization: apikey acme_key.897b6e...' \\
    -d '{ "bindVars": { "customer": 1}}'
```

The displayed results show the added data:

```sql
{
   { "customer": 1, "item": "hammer", "ordered": 2, "partner": "partner1" },
}
```

On the other hand, if Partner 1 tries to run the same command to edit data belonging to Partner 2:

```
curl -X 'POST' \\
    '<https://fulfillment.eng.macrometa.io/_fabric/_system/_api/restql/execute/PartnerOrdersUpdate>' \\
    -H 'accept: application/json' \\
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \\
    -H 'Authorization: apikey <PARTNER 1 API KEY>' \\
    -d '{ "bindVars": { "customer": 2}}'
```

> The result is empty because the attempt failed:

Reviewer: It didn't fail, it just had no results.

```sql
{
   {}
}
```

> ## Example 3

Reviewer: Title something like "Limit Access by Attribute"?

In this example, partners attempt to view employee data and are blocked because they do not have proper access.

The name of this query worker is `Employees`:

```sql
FOR doc IN employees
    FILTER CURRENT_APIKEY_ATTRIBUTE("partner") == null
    RETURN doc
```

> The result is empty because API keys with the `partner` attribute do not have access to the `employees` collection:

Reviewer: This is better than the "failed" used earlier, much clearer.

> ```sql

Reviewer: I don't think we need to show the empty list for here or earlier, just say it doesn't work.

{
   {}
}
```

> ## Example 4

Reviewer: Attribute View and Edit Permissions

...okay, that one is not great. You're right, this is confusing. Also, are these query workers each working individually, or are they all building the same API, so all existing together? I thought the latter, but now I am not so sure.

Author: I believe they're all being run at the same time.  @joubert-macrometa can you confirm please?

> In this example, employees can see all items and orders but cannot update them, and partners can view and update their own items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, employees can see all items and orders but cannot update them. Partners can view and update only their own items.
```

Reviewer: Maybe add that it uses two separate query workers to accomplish this.

The name of this query worker is `ViewOrders`.

```sql
FOR doc IN orders
    FILTER doc.partner == CURRENT_APIKEY_ATTRIBUTE("partner") OR 
            CURRENT_USER_ATTRIBUTE("employee") == "admin" OR
            CURRENT_USER_ATTRIBUTE("employee") == "staff"
    RETURN doc
```

Partner 1 can run a command to add data to their order:

```

> curl -X 'POST' \\

Reviewer: Where in this curl are they adding data? I do not see anything that indicates added content, and the query worker looks like it's a view, not an edit query.

    -d '{ "bindVars": {}}'
```

The result shows the added data:

```sql
{
   { "customer": 1, "item": "hammer", "ordered": 2, "partner": "partner1" }
}
```

Similarly, if an employee is logged onto their account they can run a command to view all data:

```
curl -X 'POST' \\
    '<https://fulfillment.eng.macrometa.io/_fabric/_system/_api/restql/execute/ViewOrders>' \\
    -H 'accept: application/json' \\
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \\
    -H 'Authorization: bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cC...' \\
    -d '{ "bindVars": {}}'
```

The result shows data for both customers since the employee has view access to both.

```sql
{
   { "customer": 1, "item": "hammer", "ordered": 2, "partner": "partner1" },
   { "customer": 2, "item": "drill", "ordered": 1, "partner": "partner2" }
}
```

The name of this Query Worker is `OrdersUpdate`.

```sql
FOR doc IN orders
    FILTER doc.customer == @customer AND
            doc.partner == CURRENT_APIKEY_ATTRIBUTE("partner") OR
            CURRENT_USER_ATTRIBUTE("employee") == "admin"
    UPDATE doc WITH {"ordered": doc.ordered + 1} IN orders
    RETURN NEW
```

Partner 1 can run a command to add data to their order:

```

> curl -X 'POST' \\

Reviewer: Still not seeing added data.

Reviewer: Unless the 1 corresponds to hammer? Where is it saying that they ordered three hammers?

Author: @diana-macrometa Worked with Joubert to fix the example descriptions.
